
DEFJAM RECCRDING. 
ADINSIONOF UUG RECORDINGS,INC 
41755EROAOWAY 
NEWYORK,NEWYORK IDO19 
Dalod as or Augusl 11, 2014 
Gotting Out Our' Dreams Il, LLe. 
to Carrell Gunde & Crolman LLP 
New york ny Tout9.. 
Attentom Michael Guido, Esy. 
Del wam. Recordinge w. Ceming ourouroreams ll LLe r/slo Kanye Westll Amondmentlo.. 
Re 
Dear Centlepersons: 
Roference is hereoy rnada to the iollowing agrcemonis, ag seidragreemenlsmay have been emended. 
and which.agreementsare.in tullrorcoandetfcctas arthedate hereof. 
Keeiverre cordingr 
A Fela Records, Llc. (co ecively, YUMc'). and' RocktheWolu, Llc ("Rtw') fso Kanye West. 
Tthe"Artist's) daled ao gf Aprl 13rzo05, CRecordingrAgrgerment: 
The pront splt egreoment beween UmGk and. Rrw fsio Arusr dared ecrot May 4l zo 12 which. 
ennendment tox thc Recording Aoceemenl, among sother thingp,rseis? fenh the proit spll end.. 
.reverson.teums n.connection with the sixth Abum.and sevenh Album tPrort Split Agrcemenck. 
The assionment and assumpton agreement between Rtw pnd Arist dated asrof May:s 2012? 
Incluano the. exhibit, which oxhiblt amang other things, cureets Umg'to pay' Aret and RTW 
directly jne connection, with. Hhe. Recordi ng Agreement) wih respecl'to Riw's. asslgnnnent or 1s 
pequve uigne under the Recordiog Agrecmant to Anist daled go:ot Mey4, 2012 (collectively. 
Rnw.LetterolDirectionrand 
ement besween LmG endkGeing Out Our Dreams I. 
The exclisive piessing.. 
oressingrand dsributicn otArlst's eighin'Album'and 
nint Album: dated.asrofmay 71 aon2 (ReDkAgreement. 
The alorernentioned aegteements,sas amended. hereby, shall be colcctvely referied o herein as tne.. 
All terms notrspecifically denined. hereln shallbave.tne same moaning uised i. he.. 
Tanve agreemcnts 
uconieined herein (hereinatler, tne "P&D. Amendment)aconlict.wih Ine terme of he Recorang. Agreemient.. 
The termsor the P&DrAmendment'shall govern.. 
For oopd and vajuablexconsiderahen, Ihe recoiptof whicn oachf party hereby'acknowledoes. tue patlies?. 
agree. ta modhy the Kaoye'Agreemenis ac follows.. 
ITerm I eroduct. Natwithstanding any lhing tor the contrany contained i. the Kanye Apreemeins 
Qncuang.whout imlalion. this.e&e.Amendment. 
Granior ant., Arlisi. herebyr acknowledgor and agree thet omg umely and. properly.. 
"whighy UMg is.entilled to.recelvo delivery oitho:seyenth Album.or the Mnlmume RccordinorQbigallon the. 
Kanve west PD AmendnenbLPo 7-10 (1202 14ev4 nw clean


Te, the Simh/Album shall be the linal Album deivered tox Umc in satistaclion of the Minimum Recording. 
Obligation othe.RecordingtAgreement subject.to he provisions oF paragraph 7 below: Notwtistanding. 
Enything to the contrary conlained mn the Kanye Agreemenis? Cnciuding. without Emitation, this Pab? 
Amendrn eno in conneeron. with the Seventh Album and eachkof the other PedAlbumshall or Rrw's. 
Inchurdirrg: wathout limiiaton, all reoresentationsand warranties.and covenants pursuant to.thenRecording. 
Agreement and allof Umc's nohis in.connection.herewih, shall remain in.fullJorco and.effect including. 
Dunng the temrof the Po D Agreement r the P&er Term Gran tor may at nsrsole option.. 
dellver.to Ume oned exira 
traclual Album compnsed 
deened a P&D Abum defnedlbelow tsubjecl tothersame nnancia terms sct forhhereinwth.respectto. 
rerantor herebywgrants Lo. Umcxoney Dradd Lonalseparate option low extend the'Peex. 
L Jor one (1y addiional Contiert Period (c. the enth Album pi tne Minirnun Rcoording Oblgetion 
(O) addilonal separata opuone. for three (a) Albums (he.. the Egnlh Album. Ninth Album leno Tenth.. 
Albums 
The following ncowsious shal replace reregreph toy or tho pag Agreementand are. 
Hooreu panerodiogu 
The Min' mum P&D Recordrag ObligaWon Hicrcunderchall baresifollows.. 
ContracePeriod 
Mnmum P&D Recordingrobligetion 
InitialPerod. 
e 
theCighthrAlbum 
pougauondo ysue 
Secona Period. 
thetentrAbum 
Third epton Period 
wngy.nuel.au 
The'SeventhrAlbum. CrgnthAlbum NinthsA lbumrand Tenth Album shal hereinalter be. 
swngy.dBd oq. *wngyaora. o uaea swnoe.dad.aun.se.o peueyounpgaehpo 
Ad aihistrationzof Recoraling Costs: Notwinstanding anythinc lor the contrar contalned in the. 
Kanye-Agreements (Including, wihou limitalion his. p&D Amendment. 
Agreement) to.Grantor pursuant to the PeD Agreement is hereby deemed terminaled. Nowithslending. 
Sshudlo costs. 
equipment.rentals. 
periemer fees 
musician 
Unlan celated casts. Aer related 
wihout limitation, therSewentn Aibum. il.being runderstood thetsany suct r costs paidk or commtted. to be. 
paid.by umc in.conneetiom with thep&DrAlbumsincludingrwithout Imitation.the Execution Advance.set 
Ionhin paragraph a(e) atIne P&D Agreemen ahd all Advances 
Vor Recording.Cosis.paid byumG 
Connection wu ihe Seventhr Albunt shal be deduciedrfrom Net Bilingsn Idefned in paregraphr3t 
helowy or Net Licensing Bilings as apollcable, otherwise payable totCrantor.hereunder.. 
Kanye:West PD AmcndmenLLPs 7-10 (20214lvanwrceal


Distr butron Fee. Notwithstandng anyunno io tne'contrar. contaned in.he Kanye Agreements 
Sevent Album  Distribution Fec. 
Selely in.connecton with ther exploitatlon.o.. 
Ieny-onepercent/219 
of.tetBilinos, reducing pr 
excessrot bne miliion h ooo oooy unts in. the Unted States as: delermined br Sounascan. Ior its 
Notwhnstanding the foregoing, Gramor's share. 
the.Seventh/Album shall,be 
peld toGranor ArtstorAnists 
Subject lo ibo leuns and conditonshereln.. 
Seventhalbum Exeu s Rates For the avordance ofdoubt the Basc Rate shel 
Sevenin Arbum outside of tne Urlted States (throughaffllates or atheratnrd parties). 
E 
Erghth Albuor.In the Unted Stales, UmG shalretain's Disribution Feo of sovonteen percent t1 zoay otNe. 
Bilings 
.Eigh!n A bumt' Excus Rate. For lhe avoidanceordoub, the Basic Rale shallbo. 
Oa in.connection wld-Umg'e sales, disimbuhon and other'explonaion-ot the Eohth. 
Abun.pufside.ofthe Unted States troughanlates.or other.third panies 
Nath' & Tenth Album tDis tibulon Feo: Soleivinrconnection wil r the oxploitotion. 
Of the Ninin, and Tenth Albuns in the United States, CMe shall retaina Distnbution.Feerof seventeen. 
percent (17%)-or Net Bilings: 
Nnth & TenthAlbunnvlEeUs Rate.For theravoidance of doubt the Basic Rale 
Shall be tvenly six percent 2o%a in conheclion wathr Cmg's sales dis raution and ollrer expionatlon of each. 
Te . Ninth Album and Tentn Album.ourside or the unled Staves tin oughvanllates orotherthid partos). 
WNet Billings" shal. mean. for al puroosee of the Pen Agreenen. cross bilings in. 
Sonnsau pue swnieu sse depuneaay swoqly ioad eneoydde au yo. uoheyodxa ay uw yoroauuo? 
Egelnst anticipated relurns and crediisxeamed lhereunder in the Unnted Stetes. Inresta blishing reserves. 
le and.retun 
res.repors land.Tepors.trom 
orshnta-netacsa 
Ume's distnbutor regarding to what extent Ihe Reco. 
IConcerned is'seling-through'atrelaoulets.For 
The avoidance ofsdoubt in ca culating Net Bungs, Unic does not take reserveswagainst anticipated 
reltrns tor Racords sold inxthe fom of Electron 
e'Transmissions. Notwtstancing the foregoing. Net 
egs shuhid Jon to uomtyap BuioboJor oyl. seiepinbt Sinn sonuose Aue oorpli osie leus sbune 
Recoupment., Natihstanding anything ig the conirary coniained in the kanye agreemene 
Moncludingrwnout lmliation.ths P&p.Amendinent. 
Anist'seroyallyand net proft account pursuant io the Recording.Agreoment (coUeclively. 
Ha 
Pr and the Rerw Account (ac dernedl in paragraph [] belouy 
TherPec 
Aocount. exceptas tollows: solely tn connection withrthe Pa D Aiburns and teiowing recouphenf ei any 
andralr costs paid or ineurred byr UMG.ona P&o. Album by P&ehA bum basis Qnciuding wwithoue Itnutation 
apply the.nextrworvhion.Dollars (Se.0c0.eoo of.Grant. 
rerctnet.Pncct 
P& p Albunato Lhe warecouped ReoordligpAgreement Royalty Accownt dnclusivorotthe Rnu Accounty.. 
Kehye West PD Amendment LPs 7-10 (+2 02 14) v4.ns Clcan


Isubjecl o sen pggragaio cap ol iSix Milion Dollars. (so:ooo,oeo)recrossrall. Pad Albume. Aiter the!. 
aforementloned Two.Mllion Dollar (s2,ooo:ooo)applicalion,of recoupment per P&Dr Atbum sel forth in the. 
tinclusive orthe Rnu Account. any end alfuture montesru connection wih Crantors Sharerof Net 
Proceeds payable. Tor the applcable Pab Album shal be sepplied lo. the Pep Accounl sonly. 
recoupment inrconnectionwitn the Sevemth Album her-n m one-half-cz rof the Execution Advance. 
Far heravoidanca otdoubl, hal porton of. royalles;, nely pranfs, endlor Graniar's hare di!. 
Ner Proccods: paid inio the Recordng Agreernent Royally Accounf by Granjor as sel forth in paregraph.. 
Aa  abovesand pursuant to ihe Rtwv Letier of Directon (es the samemaybe aimended from time to. 
Mimeshall.consttute.h 
account the rr Account 
For ther urher'avoidance' or doube. 
pursuant.te the Pr wy Letteroi.Direction.ther Rrw Accountsha not be deemed pavabie untl such time. 
as the. Recording horeement Royalty Account Tof which the. Rrw Account is.a porlon of is In. o fuly. 
Tecouped positon. No oyalties accrung pursuant to the Reeordng Agreemeneshall berpaid mrough to. 
cord Agreement Royalty Account is in a tully recouped posillonssubject. 
further.to.the fenmsandccndlions of pareoraphralabove. 
SE 
Seventh Albuon lo.be.conmercrelyreleased.byLnlG.in zonssuch.deliven dateamay only be.extended. 
by.mutuakapprovalofthe parties.hereto. 
Marketno.. 
Notwthstending ahyinng ia the conrar'. contained n the Kanye Agreements. 
ineiudingw thout Hnitation thisP&o.Amenonent). solay n.connecion wilh isacammereial release bf 
The P& D.Albums in the United States: Lme wllkadvance or Incurall costs to tntnd pertiesin connection. 
Withamarketino. promotion, publiceiye and adverising including wihour lim tation the costoi promolione.. 
forthe.P&D.Abum 
hnd Part mlarketinorLost 
provided.howevertharLneshellbe.requlred 
to incur Third Pary Mvarketing Cosisup. to, bul not in expess.of.anamount equal to.twenty live percent 25%l. 
don.unek 
red-andithout.ine 
deduction of any.reserves) walbe eaned in eonneohoh with is distnbutionrof the Pco Araum.concemed.. 
Norwwthstanoing anything to the contrar set rorth herein, all Third Party Marketing Costs hereunder shalliben 
Exelusivily. . Notwithstanding. anything Io Wexcontrary conlained ih the. Kanye Agieemente. 
O. witheut Intation. this Pu D Amendrnent ndurng tne P&o Termrand Hhe.penod onex year 
uding 
Immediatelyfollowing the exprationrofthe P&Dklerm theExelusiviry Period'Grantor'shalcontnue.to. 
Sofaiisl.exclusi 
derivngranyaiohis fromy Grantor or A rust shah et any tmie: do, on au horize Eny Person to do: anytbing. 
inconsistent witn+or which. might dininish or impain. any of UnG's.aghts of exclustvity hereunder 
Agreemient. For no.avordance df doubrmhe.provision. 
hereunder.. 
Letters of Directlon. Umcewil honor lehicre of directon hiom Granior Ine formet approved.by. 
Iicensors duc in connection will P&D Album Sales end explollations. For the avoidance-ordoubt UiG.. 
Shall not honor any'ietter ordirecion from Grantorto payradvances to.third panies.. 
Kanye WeslPelAtmendmenl.ces7-10:(12.02*14)a4:nwncleane


5 
Audit. Ume acknowiedges itsxreceiptof Grantor's inten to audhather Recording Agreement.. 
Decemben31.zoisrthe-AuaitLumG herebydgreesrto.agprospedtvexexlensionof te-contaclualtime 
Locommenceachion.and aprospective toling of tne:statute of imitations: whelhercontractual. slantory. 
prothenwiselapplicable,with respecltor.Granton's.claims.relating.to-those.royally'siatements.rendered 
by umcin.connecirenrwih tieAudit By prowainginsroline 
qagreement. 
Audit.The.royalty.slatementsrorothennise. Ths.tolling.agreement. 
expite.unless.rurthernextended.om 
March.sr.2015.and.does.notextend ar.reviveranyelimitations.periodh(whether.conlractual, statutory.on 
otnerwisehdnarhave aleady expiredras of Juner12,2o14. and does not alfect.or limilany.dlaimror 
delensexthat may'already exist includingn wihour Hinitation. those based upon.prnciplos of-estoppel. 
waverand Bchesrand/orrelaling.lo aapreviously lanlatonsiperiod. thal may bave.alieadymexpired as:on 
June12-2014. 
Nnacellancousy 
10 
.Tha parlles.hereto,on.consttutanetherpar the agenioftherothen andneithenparlyshel. 
becornee iable for any cepresentallon ach on omisslon of therother whichnis contrary to the provislons.of. 
ths paregephnges 
Thisawriing sets forthhe.entre understanding betweenthe pariesheretorwthrespecrto. 
the subjectamatter hereof.and.nomodinication.amendnentorwalverorths documentshalhbe binding 
uponether panyheretouunless.contrmed.byya.wntten.instramentsigned.by an.authorized'signalon.ol. 
the party sought tobe bound,  No walven. 
any provision oror watverrona deiault underthis peD 
cise nghis hereundershallprejudice the righis oricitherpany thereanen 
orrshallitaorm.precedentforthe.future.. 
Excepr as rexpressly or by necessary Implicalion modinedl hereby, the P&D Agneemen!.. 
ans all proyisionsathereot' ano hereby ratned and ahrmed as. being in lull faico and enfect. wihoun. 
-Thts documnent may bersigned in counterpans: and mayube exccutedrand:delivered by. 
Tecsmib, elccrorior mall (as prscanned atlachment or pot, de). which when leken together wall have the. 
Wery trulyyows. 
DEFJAMRECDRDIN 
AGREEDVANDLACCEPTEDR 
GETN 
ARAuthonZ 
entative 
Kanye.WestPD Amendment.LPs7-10.2 02 1aj w4nw Tdleand

